Install Mg 
Requirements 

    * PHP >= 5.0
    * MySQL >= 4
    * PostgreSQL 8+
    * Oracle 9i/10g might actually work with a few changes (grep the 
includes/ directory for @rdbms-specific to see what you need to change - 
there's not really that much marrying this to MySQL).
    * Apache + mod_rewrite
    * If you want to write lighttpd rewrite rules, PLEASE SEND THEM TO 
ME!
    * Microsoft IIS is not supported. If you have any skill with 
ISAPI_Rewrite (or a similar mod_rewrite-like thing for IIS), please feel 
free to write a set of rules and send them to me.
    * The Windows XAMPP software is capable of running Modular Gaming, 
but you must enable mod_rewrite for it to work. 

If you're looking for hosting for Modular Gaming do post on the forums 
as in certain cases we are able to provide you with free hosting.
Installing (0.2.5< )(all new releases) 
Prep Work 

    * Unzip package and transmit its contents to your webserver.
    * Open .htaccess file and change the line 'RewriteBase? /mg' to what 
is appropriate for your installation. The /mg is the base path of your 
installation. Examples:
          o  http://demo.mg.domain.org = /
          o  http://example.org/mg = /mg
          o  http://example.org/apps/mg = /apps/mg 
    * Visit yoursite.com/path/install/
    * It will tell you to chmod a number of folder and files. It is 
important that you do it
    * Enter the information as you are told
    * Erase install folder when you are told to do it (THIS IS 
IMPORTANT)
    * Sign up through the register page to create your user. The first 
user will automatically be an admin user. 

OLD INSTALL (0.2.4> ) 
Prep Work 

    * Unzip package and transmit its contents to your webserver.
    * Visit yoursite.com/path/system_check.php to run the compatibility 
check program.
    * This will let you know if your webserver will work with Modular 
Gaming, and if not, exactly why it will not work. 

Code Setup 

    * Chmod the /cache/ dir so that it is writable by the webserver.
    * Chmod the /template/cache, /template/config/, and 
/template/templates_c directories to be writable by the webserver. 
However, DO NOT DO THIS TO /template/templates - that is insecure.
    * Edit /includes/config.inc.php. You need to specify your 
database/user/pw, the base path (on the filesystem), and the public 
directory (the base URL), at the minimum. There are lots more options to 
play with in there, though. Don't fret - there's lots of delicious 
in-line documentation.
    * Rename the '_htaccess' file to '.htaccess' (no quotes). Without 
the mod_rewrite rules provided by this file, your installation will not 
work.
    * Open this file and change the line 'RewriteBase? /mg' to what is 
appropriate for your installation. The /mg is the base path of your 
installation. Examples:
          o  http://demo.mg.domain.org = /
          o  http://example.org/mg = /mg
          o  http://example.org/apps/mg = /apps/mg 

Database Setup 

    * Load the installer/sql/mysql5_ddl.sql or 
installer/sql/mysql4_ddl.sql file into your MySQL database. It contains 
all of the table structures needed by this app.
    * You're SOL if you want Oracle DDL. If you port it, please send the 
SQL to me!
    * If there is no _all.sql file you can generate one by running cat 
*.sql > _all.sql
    * Load some SQL files from installer/sql/mysql_data in to your 
database. These contain seed data. To load all of the seed data at once, 
load in the installer/sql/mysql_data/_all.sql file.
    * You can opt to load in some data instead of all of it by loading 
the tables in file-by-file. If you want to do this instead of using 
_all.sql, note that the following files are *REQUIRED* to have your site 
work. If these files are not loaded, it *WILL* cause your installation 
to be inoperable. 

+ jump_pages.sql + datetime_format.sql + timezone.sql + 
staff_permission.sql o Unless you are an advanced MG developer and know 
*exactly* what you are doing, you will need to load these files to have 
your site be useful: + cron_tab.sql + item_class.sql + staff_group.sql

Note: If you are new to Modular Gaming, I strongly advise you load *all* 
of the sample data in, and not just those few files. Even if you intend 
to delete the pets and item_types as soon as your installation is 
complete, they will provide you with an idea of how everything fits 
together in the admin panel.
Create Admin User 

There is nothing special done by the registration page for the first 
user created. It will be a normal user account. Since there are no other 
admin accounts, you will need to take some action to make the user an 
administrator. Once this bootstrapping is done, you can change a user's 
permissions through the admin panel.

    * Sign up through the register page to create your user. You can 
check this by clicking on your username - the number at the end of the 
URL is your user ID. I will use 1 in this example.
    * If you have loaded the staff_group.sql data file, you can run 
these two queries to give your account admin rights: 

-- If you get a 'ERROR 1062 (23000): Duplicate entry '1-1' for key 2' 
error, that means this relationship is already built (it's OK), so 
please proceed.

INSERT INTO user_staff_group (user_id,staff_group_id) VALUES (1,1);
INSERT INTO staff_group_staff_permission 
(staff_group_id,staff_permission_id) SELECT 1 AS group_id, 
staff_permission_id FROM staff_permission;

Finalizing 

Once you have verified your MG install works, you can disable access to 
the system_check.php file (read as: you can delete it, but if you are 
going to write to me and ask for help, you need to send me this script's 
output**, so you might want to just move it outside of the public_html 
folder). You can move on to the Introduction for Developers guide now. 

